Taking notes on how internet works


The basics of the technical infrastructure of the Web and the difference 
between Internet and the Web.

The number of cables required to connect all the devices is reduced by using 
Routers.

Then we can form a netword of networks by connecting routers to 
routers. 
This is coming close to form a "Internet"

We use MODEM to convert signals in a form that can be transfered on wires
we have available. 

An ISP is a company that manages some special routers that are all linked 
together and can also access other ISPs' routers.

Application Protocols Layer	-- Protocols specific to applications such as WWW, e-mail, FTP, etc.
Transmission Control Protocol Layer	-- TCP directs packets to a specific application on a computer using a port number.
Internet Protocol Layer	-- IP directs packets to a specific computer using an IP address.
Hardware Layer -- 	Converts binary packet data to network signals and back.

HTTP is a connectionless text based protocol. Clients (web browsers) send requests to web servers for web elements such as 
web pages and images. After the request is serviced by a server, the connection between client and server across the Internet 
is disconnected. A new connection must be made for each request. Most protocols are connection oriented. This means that 
the two computers communicating with each other keep the connection open over the Internet. HTTP does not however. 
Before an HTTP request can be made by a client, a new connection must be made to the server.


When applications open a connection to another computer on the Internet, the messages they send (using a 
specific application layer protocol) get passed down the stack to the TCP layer. TCP is responsible for 
routing application protocols to the correct application on the destination computer. 
To accomplish this, port numbers are used. Ports can be thought of as seperate channels on each computer.

TCP, IP is an unreliable, connectionless protocol. IP doesn't care whether a packet gets to it's destination 
or not. Nor does IP know about connections and port numbers. IP's job is too send and route packets to other 
computers.